STABLESOUND - MILESTONE 8 HARDWARE ROUND
Tests 58 to 63.

You chose (b): do the startup change first, and ship after it has been tested.
This is that round, and it is the last one before shipping.

Everything in Milestone 7 passed, so nothing from it is re-tested here. There
is one new thing and this round is entirely about it.


WHAT CHANGED

"Start StableSound when I sign in" no longer writes a registry entry. It asks
Windows for a scheduled task that runs at logon.

That is the whole change, and the reason for it is your Test 56 answer: about
30 seconds, and the first thing JAWS said was clipped. The two ways Windows
can start a program are not equally quick. A scheduled task fires around the
sign-in itself. The registry list is not reached until the desktop is ready,
after a pause, after every other program in it, in an order no program can ask
for - so Discord being ahead of you was never about Discord being faster.

Two things I promised to find out before writing any of it:

  Does it need administrator rights? No. I tested this properly rather than
  guessing: on this machine, as a standard user who is not an administrator,
  the task registers, reads back correctly and deletes again, with no
  permission prompt anywhere. If Windows ever does refuse it, it refuses
  quietly, as an error code - it cannot put a prompt in front of you at
  sign-in.

  Can the tickbox still be trusted? Yes, and it is stricter than before. It
  reads Windows rather than remembering anything, and it now also checks that
  what it finds points at the copy of StableSound you are running. An entry
  left behind by a copy you have since moved reads as unticked, which is the
  truth, and ticking the box repairs it. Test 62 covers that.

If a task cannot be registered, StableSound falls back to the old registry
entry and tells you it has. Only ever one of the two - two would start two
copies of StableSound.

There is a second change you should know about even though you will probably
never see it. Until now, if StableSound could not put its icon in the system
tray, it said so and stopped. That made sense when the only thing that started
it was Windows Explorer: if Explorer had started us, Explorer was obviously
running. A scheduled task can now start StableSound BEFORE Explorer exists, and
Explorer is what hands out tray icons - so "no icon yet" is now normal, and
stopping would be the wrong answer. StableSound keeps running, your hotkey
works, and it puts the icon in as soon as there is somewhere to put it. Test 61
checks that.


BEFORE YOU START

Read this bit first, because Test 58 can only be done once.

If a StableSound from an earlier session is still running, exit it now.

Build the new version:

    cargo build --release

Now STOP. Do not run it yet. The first time the new version starts it will
move your existing registry entry up to a scheduled task, and it only does
that once - so that first run IS Test 58. Go straight there.

Logging is already on from last round, so there is nothing to set up.


TEST 58 - THE FIRST RUN MOVES YOU UP BY ITSELF

You already had "start when I sign in" ticked. You should not have to untick
and retick it to get the better method - StableSound should notice and move you
up on its own.

Run target\release\stablesound.exe

Keep-alive should come on silently, the same as last round.
ANSWER (did it start normally?):

Now open stablesound.log and go to the bottom, then search upwards for the word
autostart. You are looking for two lines near the last "StableSound 0.1.0
starting".

The first should say autostart is on, by an entry under the registry Run key -
that is where you were.

The second should say it moved up from the Run key to a scheduled task.

Are both lines there, and does the second one say it moved up?
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 59 - THE TICKBOX STILL TELLS THE TRUTH

Open the settings with Ctrl+Win+F11.

Is "Start StableSound when I sign in" still ticked? It should be - you are
still set to start at sign-in, just by a better route, and the box should not
have changed under you.
ANSWER:

Untick it and press Enter for OK.

Did the dialog close without complaining? No message window should appear.
ANSWER:

Open the settings again with Ctrl+Win+F11.

Is the box now unticked?
ANSWER:

Tick it again and press Enter for OK.

Did any message window appear this time? There should be none. If one did
appear, it means Windows refused the scheduled task and StableSound used the
old registry entry instead - please say so and quote what it said, because that
is the case I could not produce here.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 60 - THE SIGN-IN ITSELF

The one this was all for.

Check the settings one more time: "Start StableSound when I sign in" ticked,
and keep-alive switched ON with Ctrl+Win+F12.

Now sign out and sign back in.

Were your headphones already being held awake when you got to the desktop?
ANSWER:

Was it silent - no tone at sign-in?
ANSWER:

The question underneath all of it. Was the first thing JAWS said clipped, or
did it come through whole?
ANSWER:

Last round this took about 30 seconds and the first thing JAWS said was
clipped. How does it compare now? A rough impression is fine - immediately, a
few seconds, about the same as before.
ANSWER:

If it is better but not instant, is it good enough to ship?
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 61 - THE TRAY ICON, POSSIBLY ARRIVING LATE

Same sign-in as Test 60 - this is just reading the log afterwards, there is
nothing to do at the machine.

First, is the tray icon there now? Windows+B and arrow to it. It should read
"StableSound Headphones awake".
ANSWER:

Now open stablesound.log and find the most recent "StableSound 0.1.0 starting".
Read the few lines after it and look for one mentioning the tray icon.

There are three possibilities and any of them is a pass:

  It says the icon was added, and mentions shell notification version 4. That
  means Explorer was already up - the task did not beat it.

  It says the icon was refused for now and is being retried, followed a little
  later by a line saying it was added late. That means the task DID beat
  Explorer, which is the best evidence I can get that it fires early.

  Neither - no tray icon line at all. That would be a bug; please say so.

Which of those did you get? Quoting the line is ideal if that is easy.
ANSWER:

Did a message window appear at sign-in saying StableSound could not get a tray
icon? There should not have been one. It only appears after a full minute of
trying, and nobody has ever seen it.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 62 - MOVING IT TO ITS REAL HOME

This is the thing you are about to do anyway. target\release is a build folder,
and StableSound should not live there. It is also the one case where the new
tickbox behaviour matters, because the task you now have points at the copy in
the build folder.

Make a folder somewhere sensible - anywhere you would keep a small program.

Copy TWO files into it from target\release: stablesound.exe and
stablesound.conf. The exe is the only one that matters for using StableSound,
but copying the settings too means this test keeps your hotkeys, your
keep-alive state and your logging rather than starting from defaults.

Exit the running StableSound.

Run the copy in the new folder.
ANSWER (did it start normally?):

Open the settings there with Ctrl+Win+F11.

Is "Start StableSound when I sign in" now UNTICKED? It should be, and this is
the point of the test: the task that exists points at the old copy in the build
folder, not at this one, so ticked would be a lie.
ANSWER:

Tick it and press Enter for OK. That should repoint the task at the new copy.

Any message window?
ANSWER:

Exit StableSound, then run it again from the new folder, and check the log in
the new folder. The autostart line should now say it is on, by a scheduled
task.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 63 - AND UNTICKING REALLY REMOVES IT

Short one, and no sign-out needed. Unticking the box has to leave nothing
behind - neither the task nor the old registry entry.

With StableSound running from the new folder, open the settings and untick
"Start StableSound when I sign in". Press Enter for OK.

Exit StableSound and start it again.

Check the log. The autostart line should now say simply that autostart is off.
If it says on, by anything at all, something was left behind.
ANSWER:

Now tick it again and OK, so you are left set up the way you want. Exit and
start once more, and confirm the log says it is on by a scheduled task.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


AT THE END

Please send the log file back with this - stablesound.log. If you did Test 62
there will be two logs, one in target\release and one in the new folder. Both
are useful; the new folder's is the more interesting.

Once you have sent it, you may want to turn logging off, and detailed logging
with it.

Is there anything else that needs doing before this ships?
ANSWER:
