STABLESOUND - MILESTONE 7 HARDWARE ROUND
Tests 52 to 57.

The Milestone 6 round passed every test first time, and you asked for four
things at the end of it. Three are built and are what this round checks. The
fourth is a question I cannot answer for you, and it is at the bottom of this
file with an ANSWER line of its own.

This is a short round. There is only one new behaviour in it - StableSound
now remembers whether keep-alive was on and comes back that way - but it is
the kind of thing that fails invisibly, so most of the round is spent on the
four different ways you can leave it and pick it up again.


WHAT YOU ASKED FOR, AND WHAT HAPPENED

1. "I would like the keep-alive state to persist between runs... so one could
   basically start the machine and have keep-alive kick in automatically so
   that it all becomes set it and forget it, with no tone playing if the app
   starts with keep-alive already active."

   Built. StableSound writes one line in stablesound.conf, keep_alive, every
   time you switch keep-alive on or off, and reads it back at startup. If it
   was on, it comes on again - with no tone, as you asked.

   One decision I made that you should know about, because it changes what
   you will see: what gets remembered is what YOU last chose, not whether the
   headphones happened to be held at the moment you shut down. Letting go on
   the 30-second timer does not count as switching off. If it did, the answer
   would depend on whether anything had spoken in the half minute before you
   closed the lid, which is not something anyone could predict. So: you
   switched it on, it comes back on, even if it had gone quiet first. Tests
   52 to 54 check each case separately.

2. "Make sure to refer to the system tray instead of the notification area."

   Done, everywhere you read: the help, the README, and the two messages the
   app itself puts on screen. There is one exception I left in on purpose -
   the help's tray section says in brackets that Windows itself calls it the
   notification area - because Windows' own settings use that phrase and I did
   not want you stranded if you went looking for it there. Say the word and
   it goes.

3. "The writing makes sense to me, but is maybe a bit dense for a new user."

   Reworked, at the front rather than throughout - nothing was missing and the
   headings worked, so the problem was the first two minutes. "Getting
   started" is now the first section, ahead of "What it is for", and it is
   three bullets and a note. It ends by saying the rest of the page is detail
   you do not need. Test 57 asks whether that is enough.

4. "Please confirm that only the .exe file needs to be distributed - I see
   there's a whole lot in the release folder."

   Confirmed: only stablesound.exe. Nothing else ships, and nothing else is
   needed. The help document, the settings dialog and the icon are all
   compiled inside the exe.

   What you are seeing in target\release is a build folder, which is a
   different thing from a release. Of the files in it:

     stablesound.exe          the program. This, and only this.
     stablesound.pdb          debug symbols, for reading a crash. Not needed.
     stablesound.d            a list of source files, for cargo. Not needed.
     deps\, build\,           the build cache, so a rebuild is quick.
     incremental\,
     .fingerprint\
     stablesound.conf         your settings - written by the app, because you
                              have been running it from that folder.
     stablesound.log          your log - same reason.
     stablesound-help.html    the help, written out each time you open it -
                              same reason.

   The last three are not part of the program. They are what the program
   leaves behind wherever it runs, and if you copy the exe somewhere else it
   will make its own. I have also corrected the help and the README, which
   both said StableSound keeps two files beside itself. It keeps three - the
   help copy was missing from the list.

   For a release: one file, stablesound.exe.


BEFORE YOU START

Build the new version:

    cargo build --release

If a StableSound from an earlier session is still running, exit it first.

Turn logging on before anything else, or there will be nothing to read
afterwards:

  1. Run target\release\stablesound.exe
  2. Press Ctrl+Win+F11 to open the settings.
  3. Tick "Write a log file, so a problem can be looked into later".
  4. Tick "Detailed logging, for troubleshooting".
  5. Press Enter for OK.

Did that work, and did the dialog close?
ANSWER:

The log now has a new line in it near the top, starting with "resume:", which
says what state StableSound started in. It is there so that if any of the
tests below go oddly, the log says what it thought it was doing.


TEST 52 - IT COMES BACK ON

Press Ctrl+Win+F12 to switch keep-alive ON. You should hear the rising tone.
ANSWER (did it come on?):

Now exit StableSound - the tray menu, or the Exit button in the settings,
whichever you prefer.

Did you hear the off-tone on the way out, the same as last round?
ANSWER:

Start StableSound again.

The important part. Did keep-alive come on by itself, without you pressing
anything? Check with Windows+B and arrow to the icon - it should read
"StableSound Headphones awake".
ANSWER:

Was it silent? There should be NO tone at all when it starts this way.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 53 - AND IT STAYS OFF

The other half. With keep-alive currently on from the last test, press
Ctrl+Win+F12 to switch it OFF by hand. You should hear the falling tone.
ANSWER (did it go off?):

Exit StableSound, then start it again.

Did it stay off - icon reading "StableSound Headphones free", headphones still
available to your iPhone?
ANSWER:

Does Ctrl+Win+F12 still switch it on normally from there?
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 54 - LETTING GO ON THE TIMER IS NOT SWITCHING OFF

This is the decision described at the top of the file, and the one most likely
to feel wrong if I have judged it badly.

Switch keep-alive ON with Ctrl+Win+F12.

Now leave the machine quiet for a minute or so, long enough for the 30-second
timer to let the headphones go on its own. You will hear nothing - automatic
releases are silent. Check with Windows+B if you want to be sure it has gone
to "Headphones free".
ANSWER (did it release on its own?):

Without pressing the hotkey, exit StableSound and start it again.

Keep-alive should come back ON, because the last thing YOU did was switch it
on - the timer letting go in the meantime does not count. Did it?
ANSWER:

Is that the behaviour you want? The alternative would be that a quiet spell
before you shut down means it starts off next time. I think that would be
unpredictable, but you are the one who has to live with it.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 55 - THE SETTINGS DIALOG DOES NOT UNDO IT

A small one, guarding against a bug rather than checking a feature. The
settings dialog has no control for the remembered state, and your hotkey keeps
working while the dialog is open - so it would be easy for pressing OK to
quietly put back whatever was true when you opened it.

Switch keep-alive OFF with Ctrl+Win+F12, so it is off to start with.

Open the settings with Ctrl+Win+F11 and leave the dialog open.

With the dialog still open, press Ctrl+Win+F12 to switch keep-alive ON. It
should come on with its tone, as it always has while the dialog is open.
ANSWER (did it?):

Now press Enter for OK on the dialog.

Is keep-alive still on? It should not have been switched off by pressing OK.
ANSWER:

Exit StableSound and start it again. Does it come back on?
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 56 - SET IT AND FORGET IT

The one this was all for. Only if you are willing to sign out and back in.

Make sure "Start StableSound when I sign in" is ticked in the settings, and
that keep-alive is switched ON. Then sign out and sign back in.

Did StableSound start on its own, and were the headphones already being held
when you got to the desktop? Windows+B and arrow to the icon to check.
ANSWER:

Was it silent? No tone at sign-in is the intended behaviour.
ANSWER:

Here is the question underneath all of it: was the first thing JAWS said after
signing in clipped, or did it come through whole?
ANSWER:

How long after signing in did it take before things felt right? A rough
impression is fine - immediately, a few seconds, longer.
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


TEST 57 - THE HELP, READ AGAIN

Open the help - the Help button in the settings, F1, or the tray menu.

Read the first section, "Getting started". It is now the first thing in the
document, ahead of "What it is for", and it is meant to be everything a new
user needs before they stop reading.

If you were meeting StableSound for the first time, would that section be
enough to use it?
ANSWER:

Is anything in it wrong, or missing, or still too dense?
ANSWER:

Press H a few times through the whole document. Does the order still make
sense with Getting started first?
ANSWER:

The document now says "system tray" throughout. Did you find any place that
still says notification area, other than the one in brackets in the tray
section that says Windows calls it that?
ANSWER:

There are two new pieces of writing about the remembered state - one under
"Switching it on and off" called "It starts the way you left it", and one in
the troubleshooting section called "It was already holding the headphones when
I signed in". Do they explain it properly?
ANSWER:

ANYTHING ODD:


THE ONE I COULD NOT ANSWER - STARTING EARLIER AT SIGN-IN

You wrote: "would it be possible to have the app start up earlier in the
startup sequence? Currently, other apps like Discord, which take time to get
going, are first in the queue. As sound is my only means of reading the
screen, I'd like that to be right as early as possible."

Yes, probably - but it is a real change and I did not want to make it inside a
shipping round without asking you first.

The reason StableSound is late is not that it is slow. It starts in a fraction
of a second. It is that "start when I sign in" writes an entry in the registry
Run key, and Windows Explorer works through those AFTER the desktop is ready,
with a pause before it starts and a gap between each one. Which order they go
in is not something a program can ask for. Discord is not ahead of us because
it is quicker; it is ahead of us because Explorer got to it first.

The way round it is a scheduled task set to run at logon. Those are not
Explorer's to delay - they fire around the sign-in itself, which should put
StableSound seconds earlier rather than fractions of a second.

Three things make me want your say-so first:

  - Creating the task might need administrator rights. Scheduled tasks live in
    a folder normal users cannot write to. I could not test this from where I
    was working, so I genuinely do not know whether it will just work, prompt
    you for permission at an awkward moment, or fail.

  - The tickbox has to keep telling the truth. Right now it reads the registry
    directly, so it can never claim StableSound will start when it will not.
    Two mechanisms means two places to check, and a half-created task would be
    a tickbox that says yes while nothing starts.

  - The failure is lopsided. Starting ten seconds late costs you the first few
    announcements. Not starting at all costs you the whole session, silently -
    and the registry entry has worked in every round since Milestone 4.

My suggestion is to ship as it stands, and do this straight afterwards as its
own small change with its own test: try to create the task, fall back to the
registry entry if that is refused, and have the tickbox report whichever one
is actually in force. That way the worst case is what you have now.

Which would you rather?
  (a) Ship now, do the startup change next, on its own.
  (b) Do the startup change first, and ship after it has been tested.
  (c) Leave it alone - ten seconds is not worth the risk.
ANSWER:

One more thing worth knowing, in case it changes your answer: if the delay
turns out to be Windows' general startup pause rather than Discord in
particular, there is a single Windows setting that removes that pause for
every startup program at once. I have not touched it and would not have
StableSound touch it - it would be changing something about your whole sign-in
on one program's behalf. But it exists, and you may want to try it yourself
before deciding any of this is worth it.


AT THE END

Please send the log file back with this - stablesound.log, beside
stablesound.exe. It will have the "resume:" lines in it, which say what state
StableSound thought it was starting in each time.

Once you have sent it, you may want to turn logging back off.

Is there anything else that needs doing before this goes out?
ANSWER:
